samples: matter: Added smoke CO alarm sample (#17099)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/matter/smoke_co_alarm/README.rst

The device's implementation demonstrated in this sample supports issuing the following alarms listed from the highest to the lowest priority:

* Smoke alarm - issued if allowed smoke concentration level was exceeded
* CO alarm - issued if allowed carbon monoxide concentration level was exceeded
* Hardware fault alert - issued if the device hardware is not operating properly 
* Device self-test alert - issued if the device self-test was started by the user
* End of service alert - issued if the device service was ended either by the expiration date or other physical conditions and it needs to be replaced
* Battery level alert - issued if the device battery level is too low

You can test the device remotely over Thread network, which requires more devices.

The remote control testing requires a Matter controller that you can configure either on a PC or a mobile device (for remote testing in a network).
You can enable both methods after :ref:`building and running the sample <matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample_remote_control>`.

.. _matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample_lit:

ICD LIT device type
===================

> The smoke CO alarm works as a Matter Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) with a :ref:`Long Idle Time (LIT)<ug_matter_device_low_power_icd_sit_lit>` capability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The smoke CO alarm works as a Matter Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) with a :ref:`Long Idle Time (LIT)<ug_matter_device_low_power_icd_sit_lit>`.
```

> The device starts operation using Short Idle Time (SIT) mode and remains in it until being commissioned to the Matter fabric and registering the first ICD client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device starts operation in the Short Idle Time (SIT) mode and remains in it until it is commissioned to the Matter fabric and registers the first ICD client.
```

> After that it switches the operation mode to LIT to reduce the power consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It then switches the operation mode to LIT to reduce the power consumption.
```

> In the LIT mode the device responsiveness is much smaller than in the SIT mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the LIT mode, the device responsiveness is much lower than in the SIT mode.
```

> However, you can request the device to become responsive, for example, to change its configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can request the device to become responsive to, for example, change its configuration.
```

> To do that you need to use User Active Mode Trigger (UAT) feature, by pressing the appropriate button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do that, you need to use the User Active Mode Trigger (UAT) feature by pressing the appropriate button.
```

.. include:: ../light_bulb/README.rst
    :start-after: matter_light_bulb_sample_remote_testing_start
    :end-before: matter_light_bulb_sample_remote_testing_end

Configuration
*************

|config|

.. _matter_smoke_co_alarm_custom_configs:

Matter smoke CO alarm custom configurations
===========================================

.. include:: ../light_bulb/README.rst
    :start-after: matter_light_bulb_sample_configuration_file_types_start
    :end-before: matter_light_bulb_sample_configuration_file_types_end

Device Firmware Upgrade support
===============================

.. include:: ../lock/README.rst
    :start-after: matter_door_lock_sample_build_with_dfu_start
    :end-before: matter_door_lock_sample_build_with_dfu_end

FEM support
===========

.. include:: /includes/sample_fem_support.txt

Factory data support
====================

.. include:: ../lock/README.rst
    :start-after: matter_door_lock_sample_factory_data_start
    :end-before: matter_door_lock_sample_factory_data_end

User interface
**************

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF52 and nRF53 DKs

      LED 1:
         .. include:: /includes/matter_sample_state_led.txt

      LED 2:

>          The following states are possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Shows the state of the alarm.
         The following states are possible:
```

>          * Blinking evenly 300 ms on/300 ms off when the smoke alarm is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Even Flashing (300 ms on/300 ms off) - The smoke alarm is expressed.
```
Using the same wording and format as is used for the other state LED.

>          * Blinking evenly 500 ms on/500 ms off when the Identify command of the Identify cluster is received on the endpoint ``1``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Even Flashing (500 ms on/500 ms off) - The Identify command of the Identify cluster is received on the endpoint ``1``.
```

           The command's argument can be used to specify the duration of the effect.

>          * Blinking in combination with LED3 and LED4 when other alarms are triggered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Flashing in combination with **LED3** and **LED4** when other alarms are triggered.
```

      LED 3:

>          The following states are possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Shows the state of the alarm.
         The following states are possible:
```

>          * Blinking evenly 300 ms on/300 ms off when the CO alarm is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Even Flashing (300 ms on/300 ms off) - The CO alarm is expressed.
```

>          * Blinking in combination with LED2 and LED4 when other alarms are triggered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Flashing in combination with **LED2** and **LED4** when other alarms are triggered.
```

      LED 4:

>          The following states are possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Shows the state of the alarm.
         The following states are possible:
```

>          * Blinking evenly 300 ms on/300 ms off when the battery low level alarm is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Even Flashing (300 ms on/300 ms off) - The battery level low alarm is expressed.
```

>          * Blinking in combination with LED2 and LED3 when other alarms are triggered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Flashing in combination with **LED2** and **LED3** when other alarms are triggered.
```

      LED 2, LED 3 and LED 4 combined:
         The following states are possible:

>          * All three LEDs linking at the same time oddly 300 ms on/700 ms off when the hardware fault alarm is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * All three LEDs, Short Flash On (300 ms on/700 ms off) - The hardware fault alarm is expressed.
```

>          * All three LEDs linking at the same time oddly 700 ms on/300 ms off when the end of service alarm is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * All three LEDs, Long Flash On (700 ms on/300 ms off) - The end of service alarm is expressed.
```

>          * Flushing in sequence from LED2, through LED3 to LED4 with 200 ms interval when the self-test is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         * Flashing In Sequence from LED2, through LED3 to LED4 (200 ms interval) - The self-test is triggered.
```

      Button 1:
         .. include:: /includes/matter_sample_button.txt

      Button 3:
         Functions as the User Active Mode Trigger (UAT) button.
         For more information about Intermittently Connected Devices (ICD) and User Active Mode Trigger, see the :ref:`ug_matter_device_low_power_icd` documentation section.

      .. include:: /includes/matter_segger_usb.txt

   .. group-tab:: nRF54 DKs

      LED 0:
         .. include:: /includes/matter_sample_state_led.txt

      LED 1:

>          The following states are possible:

Reviewer: The corresponding changes from the other tab apply to this one as well, of course.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/matter/smoke_co_alarm`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

See `Configuration`_ for information about building the sample with the DFU support.

Selecting a custom configuration
================================

Before you start testing the application, you can select one of the :ref:`matter_smoke_co_alarm_custom_configs`.
See :ref:`app_build_file_suffixes` and :ref:`cmake_options` for more information how to select a configuration.

Testing
=======

After building the sample and programming it to your development kit, complete the following steps to test its basic features.

.. note::
   The following steps use the CHIP Tool controller as an example.
   Visit the :ref:`test event triggers <ug_matter_test_event_triggers>` page to see the code values used for triggering specific alarms. 

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF52 and nRF53 DKs

      #. |connect_kit|
      #. |connect_terminal_ANSI|
      #. If the device was not erased during the programming, press and hold **Button 1** until the factory reset takes place.

>       #. Commission device to the Matter network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Commission the device to the Matter network.
```

         See `Commissioning the device`_ for more information.
      #. Observe that **LED 2**, **LED 3** and **LED 4** are turned off, which means that the device does not express any alarm.

>       #. Trigger the device self-test by invoking the following command with the <node_id> and <endpoint_id> replaced with values selected by you (for example ``1`` and ``1``):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Trigger the device self-test by invoking the following command with the *<node_id>* and *<endpoint_id>* replaced with values selected by you (for example, ``1`` and ``1``):
```
We could also do what is done with the [testing remote access](https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/samples/matter/lock/README.html#testing_remote_access_with_pin_code_credential) instructions for the door lock sample, and give a filled out command and explain the two values after the command.

Also, I think the values need to be consistent from step to step, right? If so, that needs to be clarified.

Author: TBH I didn't want to do that as in the door lock sample. I have impression that if you give a filled out command, the user usually is not going to read the explanation, but will just copy-paste the example values. 

The values of the node_id and test_event_enable_key have to be the same for all commands related to `generaldiagnostics`, but the first one applies to different endpoint_id. Because of that it was not filled, but given as variable (for `generaldiagnostics` it has to be 0, for others like smokecoalarm it can be whatever suits to the user)

Reviewer: Alright, that makes sense. I'd add the information information on what needs to be the same to the start of each tab, before the steps, and have a suggestion to select them there with the example values. That way, you don't have to keep repeating the examples values in each step, and can instead say "replaced with the values you selected".

         .. code-block:: console

            ./chip-tool smokecoalarm self-test-request <node_id> <endpoint_id>

>          The **LED2**, **LED3** and **LED4** will sequentially blink for 5 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         The **LED2**, **LED3** and **LED4** will sequentially flash for 5 seconds.
```

         The **LED1** will start blinking evenly with 300 ms interval.

      #. Trigger the CO alarm by invoking the following command with the <test_event_enable_key> and <node_id> replaced with values selected by you (for example ``00112233445566778899AABBCCDDEEFF`` and ``1``):

         .. code-block:: console

            generaldiagnostics test-event-trigger hex:<test_event_enable_key> 0x005c00000000009d <node_id> 0

         Nothing will change, because the CO alarm has lower priority than smoke alarm, so it will not be expressed.

      #. Stop the Smoke alarm by invoking the following command with the <test_event_enable_key> and <node_id> replaced with values selected by you (for example ``00112233445566778899AABBCCDDEEFF`` and ``1``):

         .. code-block:: console

            generaldiagnostics test-event-trigger hex:<test_event_enable_key> 0x005c0000000000a0 <node_id> 0

         The **LED1** will be turned off and the **LED2** will start blinking evenly with 300 ms interval, to express the CO alarm, as the next one in the order.

.. _matter_smoke_co_alarm_sample_remote_control:

Enabling remote control
=======================

> Remote control allows you to control the Matter smoke co alarm device from an IPv6 network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote control allows you to control the Matter smoke CO alarm device from an IPv6 network.
```
